#lecture
>Proposition: Let $I$ be any index set and $H_i(i \in I)$ be subgroups of a group $G$. Then $$\bigcap H_{i}=\{g \in G: g \in H_{i} \text{ for all } i \in I\}$$ is a subgroup of $G$. 
>>Proof: Let $K=\bigcap H_i$. To show that $K$ is a subgroup, let us check Proposition 15.2, criteria 2:
>>1. Since each $H_i$ is  a subgroup, the identity element is in each $H_i$, and therefore is in $K$.
>>2. Suppose that $x,y \in K$. Then, for each $i$, $x,y$ are in $H_i$ so that $xy \in H_i$ because $H_i$ is a subgroup. Thus $xy \in K$.
>>3. Suppose that $h$ is in $K$. Since $h \in H_i$, and $H_i$ is a subgroup, $h^{-1} \in H_i$ and therefore $h^{-1} \in K$.

>Definition: Let $X$ be any subset of a group $G$. Then $\langle X \rangle$ is the **subgroup generated by $X$**. $\langle X \rangle$ is the intersection of all the subgroups of $G$ containing the set $X$. 
>>This is a subgroup by Proposition 15.3. 
>
>>This is the smallest subgroup containing $X$.
>
>>When considering a list of elements $\{x_1,x_2,\dots\}$, we write $\langle x_1,x_2,\dots\rangle$ instead of $\langle\{x_1,x_2,\dots\}\rangle$.

>Definition: In the case when $X$ consists of a single element of $G$, call it $x$, the subgroup^[[[15 - Subgroups]]] $\langle x \rangle$ is said to be **cyclic**. The subgroup contains all possible powers (positive, negative, and zero) of $x$. 

>Proposition: Let $G$ be a group^[[[10 - Groups]]], and let $g$ be any element of $G$. If $g$ has infinite order, then $\langle g \rangle$ is an infinite cyclic group. If $g$ has order $n$, then $\langle g \rangle$ has $n$ elements
>>Proof: Instead of a rigorous proof, which can be found on page 34^[[[A Course in Group Theory by Humphreys]]], think about it. The order is essentially how many elements one $g$ can rotate through by changing the power. Then obviously, if a cyclic group is based on the different powers of one single element, the cyclic group can only contain $n$ elements.

>Proposition: A cyclic group^[[[10 - Groups]]] is abelian.
>>Proof: Once again, instead of a rigorous proof, which can be found on page 35^[[[A Course in Group Theory by Humphreys]]], think about it. If elements are defined by powers, and powers when under operation are commutative because of addition, then of course elements are commutative.

>Proposition: A subgroup^[[[15 - Subgroups]]] of a cyclic group is cyclic. 
>>Proof: Let $G$ be cyclic and generated by $g$, and $H$ be a subgroup of $G$. Since $H$ is a subgroup of $G$, all elements of $H$ are of the form $g^k$ for some $k \in \mathbb{Z}$. If $H = \{1\}$, then $H$ is cyclic. Then let $H$ not be the identity subgroup, and choose the element of $H$ for which $k$ is positive and as small as possible. Now let $g^s$ be any other element of $H$. Let $s$ be written as $s=qk+r$ with $0\leq r< k$. Then $g^s$ and $(g^k)^{-1}=g^{-k}$ are in $H$, so since $H$ is a subgroup, $g^s(g^{-k})^q=g^{s-kq}=g^r$ is also in $H$. This contradicts the definition of $k$, unless $r=0$, in which $k$ divides $s$. We have shown that each element of $H$ is of the form $(g^k)^q$ for some integer $q$, so $H$ is cyclic and generated by $g^k$.
>
>>This is pretty much saying that you can make a subgroup from a cyclic group, where it takes every $n$th power of the base element $g$. 

**Date:** January 25, 2024
**Class Page:** [[MATH 5250 - Modern Algebra]]
**Previous Assignment:** [[MATH 5250 - Lecture 4]]
**Next Assignment:** [[MATH 5250 - Lecture 6]]